So let's dive into an overview of
the design system maturity model.
So there's kind of four
big components here,
I've broken this up in an interesting way.
We'll kinda start just by covering the
four main stages that most design systems
go through in their maturity.
So the first one stage 1, I just call
very simply building version one.
[LAUGH] This is literally
everything that you do,
leading up to that very first release
of something that's available for
subscribers or
consumers inside your organization to use.
Of course, the decisions that you make,
you're gonna have a big impact
on how things move forward.
I'll say that stage 1 can look wildly
different based on a lot of different
factors.
So we're gonna talk about sort
of the generalized ideal, and
then I'll share with you another concept
called origin stories that helps clarify
why this stage 1 can look so different.
Really hear you are digging into
the foundations of your brand and
you are doing what I just called
discovering the right first version,
that's kinda of your main focus.
So the transition from stage 1 to stage 2,
is actually the only one
that's really obvious.
And that's because it's connected with
the release of that first version.
So whenever you get through your beta,
your pilots or
whatever it is you do to kind of early
test the system early on and get it ready.
As soon as that first version is live,
you're in stage 2 period, and
you'll never go back to stage
1 unless you start over.
[LAUGH] So that's the nice
thing about stages 1 and 2.
Yeah, so then you're in stage 2 and
stage 2 we just call growing adoption.
And again,
this begins as soon as that first
official version of the system is live.
And really, this is because as soon as you
spent all this time and effort and money
building this thing, of course, you wanna
know, is anybody else gonna wanna use it?
[LAUGH] Now hopefully, you've worked with
a few potential subscribers during that
first version, that during stage 1, so
you've got a couple subscribers, right?
There's a few folks who maybe were on
board early on who got it, but really,
stage 2 is interesting because the thing
you've built is almost never the thing
that everybody wants to adopt, right?
It's an early version,
it's an early iteration.
And so stage 2 oftentimes looks like you
iterating on the system to make it really
obvious, that it's a thing people want
to adopt, something they wanna use.
And also, to make it really easy for
them to adopt it, and
we're gonna talk a lot more about
that in the stage 2, deep dive.
This is also where you'll realize, wait,
we actually have to support people.
[LAUGH] We have a product they're using,
and so now,
beyond just focusing on building a thing,
we have users, we have people who
have a set of expectations about what
it means for them to use this system.
And so there's a whole another aspect to
the work that kinda comes into play here.
Now, the transition from stage 2
to stage 3 is a mindset shift,
that's why it's a little bit harder for
you to figure this out.
It's really the mindset of the design
system leads or the design system team.
It's when your focus shifts to
challenges that are beyond adoption.
So adoption is the first thing you're
gonna worry about because you can't really
measure anything else until
you have people using it.
And if nobody's using the system,
you can't have any impact.
And so really it's about you sort of
understanding adoption enough, and
not having so
much work to do every time one new person,
one new subscriber wants to use
the system, so you've made it really easy.
Then, all of a sudden,
you find yourself in stage 3.
Stage 3, I call surviving the teenage
years because I have two teenagers
at home, [LAUGH] And so I am in
the throes of this in my personal life.
But this comes with a whole
new set of challenges.
You've got lots of subscribers probably
at this point with more subscribers or
consumers comes a lot more bugs, right?
A lot more feature requests, a lot more of
people trying to do stuff with your system
that you never imagined
they would try to do.
So this is where things
get really interesting.
You've got to hear,
prove that your system is making
the impact you promised,
it was gonna make back in stage 1.
So this is where you made a promise
in stage 1, you got some buy-in,
you built the thing.
Now you've got people using it,
now leadership is gonna say,
what are the results?
Show it to me, prove it.
So you're keeping your
promises in stage 3.
And it's really about building that
sort of iterative product team,
product mindset in stage 3.
I'll also say I start
to see organizations,
some start with this in mind,
but most of the time,
I see more complex processes,
things like contribution and deprecation.
Those are the things that start to kind
of evolve out into stage 3 systems.
So the transition from stage 3 to
stage 4 is also harder to recognize.
And it is also a mindset shift, but
it's a change in the perception
the organization has of the system.
So whereas moving from stage 2 to stage 3
was about the change in the perception of
the design system team,
we've stopped worrying about adoption.
We feel like we have that under control.
Now we can move on to other challenges.
Stage 3 to stage 4 is a mindset shift for
the organization.
So the perception is that the system and
the system team are really
influential leaders, and
that means you've kind of reached stage 4.
Stage 4, I call evolving a healthy
program, and that's when your system has
moved beyond being just a product to
an entire program inside the organization.
The focus here, you're maintaining
a lot of what you've already done, but
you're also adding in these ideals of
sort of sustainability and growth.
There's really typically very highly
evolved engagement with subscribers here.
You're learning how to stabilize the
system in the midst of a lot of change.
You've probably seen a leader or
two come and go by this point, right?
And you've had to survive
that change in leadership.
And in fact, a lot of times these systems,
the teams of a stage
four system are seen as people who have
a voice in the direction of product even.
And so they're brought to
the table in much deeper,
bigger conversations.
Your focus here is to kind of mature into
that sort of stable leadership position.